Lalique Cristal

Lalique Paris was founded in 1888 by René-Jules Lalique. Born in 1860, Monsieur Lalique was a master craftsman and artist who revolutionized the art of jewelry and glassmaking by innovating with glass, enamel, horn and semi-precious stones, rather than the expensive gemstones which dominated traditional jewelry styles of the time.

In 1907 he transitioned from jewelry to glassmaking which would ultimately define his legacy, and in 1913, he opened his first glass factory in Combs-la-Ville, producing vases, tableware and decorative objects.


Marc Lalique and the progression to crystal
After Monsieur Lalique’s death in 1945, his son, Marc, took over Lalique Paris. It is thanks to Marc that today we can enjoy Lalique’s exquisite crystalware and art, because he transitioned the company from glass to crystal during the 1950s.

With Marc at the helm, he led the company to becoming one of the world’s finest and most sought-after craftsmen of crystal.


——
He quickly made a name for himself by breaking away from traditional styles dominated by expensive gemstones, and instead emphasized artistic craftsmanship by using innovative materials such as glass, enamel, horn and semi-precious stones.


Lalique Paris store opened in 1935. Still there today in La Galerie Royale


Just free form typing rough drafting here now

The combo of sheer glass and frosted sheen is a hallmark of Lalique crystal

Pieces before 1945 (the death of Rene Lalique) had a stamp of “R.Lalique”

After he died and his son Marc took over, the stamp became “Cristal Lalique” (which is what ours have)

After Marc’s passing, his daughter Marie-Claude took over. She expanded the repertoire of the art creations to more exotic beasts from African safaris, such as elephants and lions.

Being more traditional animal figures, including the fawn figure, and having the original “Cristal Lalique” stamp, I would say ours were crafted under the direction of Marc Lalique, likely between 1950 when the transition to crystal began, and 1975, when his daughter began taking the lead on the design direction

The store he opened is still there today
https://maps.app.goo.gl/QmVUmmDrL84Yx1nF7

